Element ID	Element Name	Description
1	Worker Characteristics	Worker Characteristics
1.A	Abilities	Enduring attributes of the individual that influence performance
1.A.1	Cognitive Abilities	Abilities that influence the acquisition and application of knowledge in problem solving
1.A.1.a	Verbal Abilities	Abilities that influence the acquisition and application of verbal information in problem solving
1.A.1.a.1	Oral Comprehension	The ability to listen to and understand information and ideas presented through spoken words and sentences.
1.A.1.a.2	Written Comprehension	The ability to read and understand information and ideas presented in writing.
1.A.1.a.3	Oral Expression	The ability to communicate information and ideas in speaking so others will understand.
1.A.1.a.4	Written Expression	The ability to communicate information and ideas in writing so others will understand.
1.A.1.b	Idea Generation and Reasoning Abilities	Abilities that influence the application and manipulation of information in problem solving
1.A.1.b.1	Fluency of Ideas	The ability to come up with a number of ideas about a topic (the number of ideas is important, not their quality, correctness, or creativity).
1.A.1.b.2	Originality	The ability to come up with unusual or clever ideas about a given topic or situation, or to develop creative ways to solve a problem.
1.A.1.b.3	Problem Sensitivity	The ability to tell when something is wrong or is likely to go wrong. It does not involve solving the problem, only recognizing that there is a problem.
1.A.1.b.4	Deductive Reasoning	The ability to apply general rules to specific problems to produce answers that make sense.
1.A.1.b.5	Inductive Reasoning	The ability to combine pieces of information to form general rules or conclusions (includes finding a relationship among seemingly unrelated events).
1.A.1.b.6	Information Ordering	The ability to arrange things or actions in a certain order or pattern according to a specific rule or set of rules (e.g., patterns of numbers, letters, words, pictures, mathematical operations).
1.A.1.b.7	Category Flexibility	The ability to generate or use different sets of rules for combining or grouping things in different ways.
1.A.1.c	Quantitative Abilities	Abilities that influence the solution of problems involving mathematical relationships
1.A.1.c.1	Mathematical Reasoning	The ability to choose the right mathematical methods or formulas to solve a problem.
1.A.1.c.2	Number Facility	The ability to add, subtract, multiply, or divide quickly and correctly.
1.A.1.d	Memory	Abilities related to the recall of available information
1.A.1.d.1	Memorization	The ability to remember information such as words, numbers, pictures, and procedures.
1.A.1.e	Perceptual Abilities	Abilities related to the acquisition and organization of visual information
1.A.1.e.1	Speed of Closure	The ability to quickly make sense of, combine, and organize information into meaningful patterns.
1.A.1.e.2	Flexibility of Closure	The ability to identify or detect a known pattern (a figure, object, word, or sound) that is hidden in other distracting material.
1.A.1.e.3	Perceptual Speed	The ability to quickly and accurately compare similarities and differences among sets of letters, numbers, objects, pictures, or patterns. The things to be compared may be presented at the same time or one after the other. This ability also includes comparing a presented object with a remembered object.
1.A.1.f	Spatial Abilities	Abilities related to the manipulation and organization of spatial information
1.A.1.f.1	Spatial Orientation	The ability to know your location in relation to the environment or to know where other objects are in relation to you.
1.A.1.f.2	Visualization	The ability to imagine how something will look after it is moved around or when its parts are moved or rearranged.
1.A.1.g	Attentiveness	Abilities related to application of attention
1.A.1.g.1	Selective Attention	The ability to concentrate on a task over a period of time without being distracted.
1.A.1.g.2	Time Sharing	The ability to shift back and forth between two or more activities or sources of information (such as speech, sounds, touch, or other sources).
1.A.2	Psychomotor Abilities	Abilities that influence the capacity to manipulate and control objects
1.A.2.a	Fine Manipulative Abilities	Abilities related to the manipulation of objects
1.A.2.a.1	Arm-Hand Steadiness	The ability to keep your hand and arm steady while moving your arm or while holding your arm and hand in one position.
1.A.2.a.2	Manual Dexterity	The ability to quickly move your hand, your hand together with your arm, or your two hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble objects.
1.A.2.a.3	Finger Dexterity	The ability to make precisely coordinated movements of the fingers of one or both hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble very small objects.
1.A.2.b	Control Movement Abilities	Abilities related to the control and manipulation of objects in time and space
1.A.2.b.1	Control Precision	The ability to quickly and repeatedly adjust the controls of a machine or a vehicle to exact positions.
1.A.2.b.2	Multilimb Coordination	The ability to coordinate two or more limbs (for example, two arms, two legs, or one leg and one arm) while sitting, standing, or lying down. It does not involve performing the activities while the whole body is in motion.
1.A.2.b.3	Response Orientation	The ability to choose quickly between two or more movements in response to two or more different signals (lights, sounds, pictures). It includes the speed with which the correct response is started with the hand, foot, or other body part.
1.A.2.b.4	Rate Control	The ability to time your movements or the movement of a piece of equipment in anticipation of changes in the speed and/or direction of a moving object or scene.
1.A.2.c	Reaction Time and Speed Abilities	Abilities related to speed of manipulation of objects
1.A.2.c.1	Reaction Time	The ability to quickly respond (with the hand, finger, or foot) to a signal (sound, light, picture) when it appears.
1.A.2.c.2	Wrist-Finger Speed	The ability to make fast, simple, repeated movements of the fingers, hands, and wrists.
1.A.2.c.3	Speed of Limb Movement	The ability to quickly move the arms and legs.
1.A.3	Physical Abilities	Abilities that influence strength, endurance, flexibility, balance and coordination
1.A.3.a	Physical Strength Abilities	Abilities related to the capacity to exert force
1.A.3.a.1	Static Strength	The ability to exert maximum muscle force to lift, push, pull, or carry objects.
1.A.3.a.2	Explosive Strength	The ability to use short bursts of muscle force to propel oneself (as in jumping or sprinting), or to throw an object.
1.A.3.a.3	Dynamic Strength	The ability to exert muscle force repeatedly or continuously over time. This involves muscular endurance and resistance to muscle fatigue.
1.A.3.a.4	Trunk Strength	The ability to use your abdominal and lower back muscles to support part of the body repeatedly or continuously over time without "giving out" or fatiguing.
1.A.3.b	Endurance	The ability to exert oneself physically over long periods without getting out of breath
1.A.3.b.1	Stamina	The ability to exert yourself physically over long periods of time without getting winded or out of breath.
1.A.3.c	Flexibility, Balance, and Coordination	Abilities related to the control of gross body movements
1.A.3.c.1	Extent Flexibility	The ability to bend, stretch, twist, or reach with your body, arms, and/or legs.
1.A.3.c.2	Dynamic Flexibility	The ability to quickly and repeatedly bend, stretch, twist, or reach out with your body, arms, and/or legs.
1.A.3.c.3	Gross Body Coordination	The ability to coordinate the movement of your arms, legs, and torso together when the whole body is in motion.
1.A.3.c.4	Gross Body Equilibrium	The ability to keep or regain your body balance or stay upright when in an unstable position.
1.A.4	Sensory Abilities	Abilities that influence visual, auditory and speech perception
1.A.4.a	Visual Abilities	Abilities related to visual sensory input
1.A.4.a.1	Near Vision	The ability to see details at close range (within a few feet of the observer).
1.A.4.a.2	Far Vision	The ability to see details at a distance.
1.A.4.a.3	Visual Color Discrimination	The ability to match or detect differences between colors, including shades of color and brightness.
1.A.4.a.4	Night Vision	The ability to see under low-light conditions.
1.A.4.a.5	Peripheral Vision	The ability to see objects or movement of objects to one's side when the eyes are looking ahead.
1.A.4.a.6	Depth Perception	The ability to judge which of several objects is closer or farther away from you, or to judge the distance between you and an object.
1.A.4.a.7	Glare Sensitivity	The ability to see objects in the presence of a glare or bright lighting.
1.A.4.b	Auditory and Speech Abilities	Abilities related to auditory and oral input
1.A.4.b.1	Hearing Sensitivity	The ability to detect or tell the differences between sounds that vary in pitch and loudness.
1.A.4.b.2	Auditory Attention	The ability to focus on a single source of sound in the presence of other distracting sounds.
1.A.4.b.3	Sound Localization	The ability to tell the direction from which a sound originated.
1.A.4.b.4	Speech Recognition	The ability to identify and understand the speech of another person.
1.A.4.b.5	Speech Clarity	The ability to speak clearly so others can understand you.
1.B	Interests and Work Values	Preferences for work environments and outcomes
1.B.1	General Occupational Interests	Preferences for work environments. Occupational Interest Profiles (OIPs) are compatible with Holland's (1997) model of personality types and work environments. Six interest categories are used to describe the work environment of occupations: Realistic, Investigative, Artistic, Social, Enterprising, and Conventional. An OIP consists of six numerical scores indicating how descriptive and characteristic each work environment (or interest area) is for an O*NET-SOC occupation. In addition, a high-point profile has been assigned indicating which interests are most characteristic of an O*NET-SOC occupation. A high-point profile consists of one to three interest codes, depending on how many interest categories meet a minimum degree of descriptiveness for the O*NET-SOC occupation.
1.B.1.a	Realistic	Work involves designing, building, or repairing of equipment, materials, or structures, engaging in physical activity, or working outdoors. Realistic occupations are often associated with engineering, mechanics and electronics, construction, woodworking, transportation, machine operation, agriculture, animal services, physical or manual labor, athletics, or protective services.
1.B.1.b	Investigative	Work involves studying and researching non-living objects, living organisms, disease or other forms of impairment, or human behavior. Investigative occupations are often associated with physical, life, medical, or social sciences, and can be found in the fields of humanities, mathematics/statistics, information technology, or health care service.
1.B.1.c	Artistic	Work involves creating original visual artwork, performances, written works, food, or music for a variety of media, or applying artistic principles to the design of various objects and materials. Artistic occupations are often associated with visual arts, applied arts and design, performing arts, music, creative writing, media, or culinary art.
1.B.1.d	Social	Work involves helping, teaching, advising, assisting, or providing service to others. Social occupations are often associated with social, health care, personal service, teaching/education, or religious activities.
1.B.1.e	Enterprising	Work involves managing, negotiating, marketing, or selling, typically in a business setting, or leading or advising people in political and legal situations. Enterprising occupations are often associated with business initiatives, sales, marketing/advertising, finance, management/administration, professional advising, public speaking, politics, or law.
1.B.1.f	Conventional	Work involves following procedures and regulations to organize information or data, typically in a business setting. Conventional occupations are often associated with office work, accounting, mathematics/statistics, information technology, finance, or human resources.
1.B.2	Work Values	Occupational Reinforcer Patterns (ORPs) indicate which work values and needs are likely to be reinforced or satisfied by a particular O*NET-SOC occupation. The use of work values to describe occupations is based on the Theory of Work Adjustment (TWA) developed during the Work Adjustment Project at the University of Minnesota under Research Grants from the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare (Dawis, R.V., England, G.W., & Lofquist, L.H., 1964; Dawis, R.V., & Lofquist, L.H., 1984). This theory proposes that job satisfaction is directly related to the degree to which a person's values and corresponding needs are satisfied by his or her work environment. The TWA identifies six work values each with a corresponding set of needs.
1.B.2.a	Achievement	Occupations that satisfy this work value are results oriented and allow employees to use their strongest abilities, giving them a feeling of accomplishment. Corresponding needs are Ability Utilization and Achievement.
1.B.2.b	Working Conditions	Occupations that satisfy this work value offer job security and good working conditions. Corresponding needs are Activity, Compensation, Independence, Security, Variety and Working Conditions.
1.B.2.c	Recognition	Occupations that satisfy this work value offer advancement, potential for leadership, and are often considered prestigious. Corresponding needs are Advancement, Authority, Recognition and Social Status.
1.B.2.d	Relationships	Occupations that satisfy this work value allow employees to provide service to others and work with co-workers in a friendly non-competitive environment. Corresponding needs are Co-workers, Moral Values and Social Service.
1.B.2.e	Support	Occupations that satisfy this work value offer supportive management that stands behind employees. Corresponding needs are Company Policies, Supervision: Human Relations and Supervision: Technical.
1.B.2.f	Independence	Occupations that satisfy this work value allow employees to work on their own and make decisions. Corresponding needs are Creativity, Responsibility and Autonomy.
1.D	Work Styles	Personality tendencies exhibited at work, which can affect how well someone performs a job.
1.D.1	Proactive and Growth Oriented	A tendency to proactively pursue excellence through setting high standards, engaging in continuous learning, and persisting and adapting in the face of challenges and uncertainty at work.
1.D.1.a	Innovation	A tendency to be inventive, to be imaginative, and to adopt new perspectives on ways to accomplish work.
1.D.1.b	Achievement Orientation	A tendency to establish and maintain personally challenging work-related goals, set high work-related standards, and exert high effort toward meeting those goals and standards.
1.D.1.c	Intellectual Curiosity	A tendency to seek out and acquire new work-related knowledge and obtain a deep understanding of work-related subjects.
1.D.1.d	Tolerance for Ambiguity	A tendency to be comfortable with ambiguity and uncertainty at work.
1.D.1.e	Initiative	A tendency to be proactive and take on extra responsibilities and tasks that may fall outside of one's required work role.
1.D.1.f	Adaptability	A tendency to be open to and comfortable with change, new experiences, or ideas at work.
1.D.1.g	Self-Confidence	A tendency to believe in one's work-related capabilities and ability to control one's work-related outcomes.
1.D.1.h	Perseverance	A tendency to exhibit determination and resolve to perform or complete tasks in the face of difficult circumstances or obstacles at work.
1.D.1.i	Leadership Orientation	A tendency to lead, take charge, offer opinions, and provide direction at work.
1.D.2	Interpersonally Oriented	A tendency to engage with others in a positive, supportive, selfless, and considerate manner at work.
1.D.2.a	Humility	A tendency to be modest and humble when interacting with others at work.
1.D.2.b	Sincerity	A tendency to be genuine and sincere in interactions with others at work, without concern for personal gain or self-interest.
1.D.2.c	Empathy	A tendency to show concern for others and be sensitive to others' needs and feelings at work.
1.D.2.d	Cooperation	A tendency to be pleasant, helpful, and willing to assist others at work.
1.D.2.e	Optimism	A tendency to exhibit a positive attitude and positive emotions at work, even under difficult circumstances.
1.D.2.f	Social Orientation	A tendency to seek out, enjoy, and be energized by social interaction at work.
1.D.3	Conscientious and Rule Oriented	A tendency to approach work with careful attention to quality, reliability, and ethical standards while maintaining organized and thorough work practices.
1.D.3.a	Cautiousness	A tendency to be careful, deliberate, and risk-avoidant when making work-related decisions or doing work.
1.D.3.b	Attention to Detail	A tendency to be detail-oriented, organized, and thorough in completing work.
1.D.3.c	Dependability	A tendency to be reliable, responsible, and consistent in meeting work-related obligations.
1.D.3.d	Integrity	A tendency to be honest and ethical at work.
1.D.4	Emotionally Resilient	A tendency to maintain emotional stability and cope effectively in the face of adversity, criticism, or high-pressure situations at work.
1.D.4.a	Stress Tolerance	A tendency to cope and function effectively in stressful situations at work.
1.D.4.b	Self-Control	A tendency to remain calm and composed and to manage emotions effectively in response to criticism or difficult situations at work.
2	Worker Requirements	Worker Requirements
2.A	Basic Skills	Developed capacities that facilitate learning or the more rapid acquisition of knowledge
2.A.1	Content	Background structures needed to work with and acquire more specific skills in a variety of different domains
2.A.1.a	Reading Comprehension	Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work-related documents.
2.A.1.b	Active Listening	Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times.
2.A.1.c	Writing	Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience.
2.A.1.d	Speaking	Talking to others to convey information effectively.
2.A.1.e	Mathematics	Using mathematics to solve problems.
2.A.1.f	Science	Using scientific rules and methods to solve problems.
2.A.2	Process	Procedures that contribute to the more rapid acquisition of knowledge and skill across a variety of domains
2.A.2.a	Critical Thinking	Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems.
2.A.2.b	Active Learning	Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
2.A.2.c	Learning Strategies	Selecting and using training/instructional methods and procedures appropriate for the situation when learning or teaching new things.
2.A.2.d	Monitoring	Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action.
2.B	Cross-Functional Skills	Developed capacities that facilitate performance of activities that occur across jobs
2.B.1	Social Skills	Developed capacities used to work with people to achieve goals
2.B.1.a	Social Perceptiveness	Being aware of others' reactions and understanding why they react as they do.
2.B.1.b	Coordination	Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.
2.B.1.c	Persuasion	Persuading others to change their minds or behavior.
2.B.1.d	Negotiation	Bringing others together and trying to reconcile differences.
2.B.1.e	Instructing	Teaching others how to do something.
2.B.1.f	Service Orientation	Actively looking for ways to help people.
2.B.2	Complex Problem Solving Skills	Developed capacities used to solve novel, ill-defined problems in complex, real-world settings
2.B.2.i	Complex Problem Solving	Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
2.B.3	Technical Skills	Developed capacities used to design, set-up, operate, and correct malfunctions involving application of machines or technological systems
2.B.3.a	Operations Analysis	Analyzing needs and product requirements to create a design.
2.B.3.b	Technology Design	Generating or adapting equipment and technology to serve user needs.
2.B.3.c	Equipment Selection	Determining the kind of tools and equipment needed to do a job.
2.B.3.d	Installation	Installing equipment, machines, wiring, or programs to meet specifications.
2.B.3.e	Programming	Writing computer programs for various purposes.
2.B.3.g	Operations Monitoring	Watching gauges, dials, or other indicators to make sure a machine is working properly.
2.B.3.h	Operation and Control	Controlling operations of equipment or systems.
2.B.3.j	Equipment Maintenance	Performing routine maintenance on equipment and determining when and what kind of maintenance is needed.
2.B.3.k	Troubleshooting	Determining causes of operating errors and deciding what to do about it.
2.B.3.l	Repairing	Repairing machines or systems using the needed tools.
2.B.3.m	Quality Control Analysis	Conducting tests and inspections of products, services, or processes to evaluate quality or performance.
2.B.4	Systems Skills	Developed capacities used to understand, monitor, and improve socio-technical systems
2.B.4.e	Judgment and Decision Making	Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
2.B.4.g	Systems Analysis	Determining how a system should work and how changes in conditions, operations, and the environment will affect outcomes.
2.B.4.h	Systems Evaluation	Identifying measures or indicators of system performance and the actions needed to improve or correct performance, relative to the goals of the system.
2.B.5	Resource Management Skills	Developed capacities used to allocate resources efficiently
2.B.5.a	Time Management	Managing one's own time and the time of others.
2.B.5.b	Management of Financial Resources	Determining how money will be spent to get the work done, and accounting for these expenditures.
2.B.5.c	Management of Material Resources	Obtaining and seeing to the appropriate use of equipment, facilities, and materials needed to do certain work.
2.B.5.d	Management of Personnel Resources	Motivating, developing, and directing people as they work, identifying the best people for the job.
2.C	Knowledge	Organized sets of principles and facts applying in general domains
2.C.1	Business and Management	Knowledge of principles and facts related to business administration and accounting, human and material resource management in organizations, sales and marketing, economics, and office information and organizing systems
2.C.1.a	Administration and Management	Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human resources modeling, leadership technique, production methods, and coordination of people and resources.
2.C.1.b	Administrative	Knowledge of administrative and office procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records, stenography and transcription, designing forms, and workplace terminology.
2.C.1.c	Economics and Accounting	Knowledge of economic and accounting principles and practices, the financial markets, banking, and the analysis and reporting of financial data.
2.C.1.d	Sales and Marketing	Knowledge of principles and methods for showing, promoting, and selling products or services. This includes marketing strategy and tactics, product demonstration, sales techniques, and sales control systems.
2.C.1.e	Customer and Personal Service	Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction.
2.C.1.f	Personnel and Human Resources	Knowledge of principles and procedures for personnel recruitment, selection, training, compensation and benefits, labor relations and negotiation, and personnel information systems.
2.C.2	Manufacturing and Production	Knowledge of principles and facts related to the production, processing, storage, and distribution of manufactured and agricultural goods
2.C.2.a	Production and Processing	Knowledge of raw materials, production processes, quality control, costs, and other techniques for maximizing the effective manufacture and distribution of goods.
2.C.2.b	Food Production	Knowledge of techniques and equipment for planting, growing, and harvesting food products (both plant and animal) for consumption, including storage/handling techniques.
2.C.3	Engineering and Technology	Knowledge of the design, development, and application of technology for specific purposes.
2.C.3.a	Computers and Electronics	Knowledge of circuit boards, processors, chips, electronic equipment, and computer hardware and software, including applications and programming.
2.C.3.b	Engineering and Technology	Knowledge of the practical application of engineering science and technology. This includes applying principles, techniques, procedures, and equipment to the design and production of various goods and services.
2.C.3.c	Design	Knowledge of design techniques, tools, and principles involved in production of precision technical plans, blueprints, drawings, and models.
2.C.3.d	Building and Construction	Knowledge of materials, methods, and the tools involved in the construction or repair of houses, buildings, or other structures such as highways and roads.
2.C.3.e	Mechanical	Knowledge of machines and tools, including their designs, uses, repair, and maintenance.
2.C.4	Mathematics and Science	Knowledge of the history, theories, methods, and applications of the physical, biological, social, mathematical, and geography
2.C.4.a	Mathematics	Knowledge of arithmetic, algebra, geometry, calculus, statistics, and their applications.
2.C.4.b	Physics	Knowledge and prediction of physical principles, laws, their interrelationships, and applications to understanding fluid, material, and atmospheric dynamics, and mechanical, electrical, atomic and sub-atomic structures and processes.
2.C.4.c	Chemistry	Knowledge of the chemical composition, structure, and properties of substances and of the chemical processes and transformations that they undergo. This includes uses of chemicals and their interactions, danger signs, production techniques, and disposal methods.
2.C.4.d	Biology	Knowledge of plant and animal organisms, their tissues, cells, functions, interdependencies, and interactions with each other and the environment.
2.C.4.e	Psychology	Knowledge of human behavior and performance; individual differences in ability, personality, and interests; learning and motivation; psychological research methods; and the assessment and treatment of behavioral and affective disorders.
2.C.4.f	Sociology and Anthropology	Knowledge of group behavior and dynamics, societal trends and influences, human migrations, ethnicity, cultures, and their history and origins.
2.C.4.g	Geography	Knowledge of principles and methods for describing the features of land, sea, and air masses, including their physical characteristics, locations, interrelationships, and distribution of plant, animal, and human life.
2.C.5	Health Services	Knowledge of principles and facts regarding diagnosing, curing, and preventing disease, and improving and preserving physical and mental health and well-being
2.C.5.a	Medicine and Dentistry	Knowledge of the information and techniques needed to diagnose and treat human injuries, diseases, and deformities. This includes symptoms, treatment alternatives, drug properties and interactions, and preventive health-care measures.
2.C.5.b	Therapy and Counseling	Knowledge of principles, methods, and procedures for diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of physical and mental dysfunctions, and for career counseling and guidance.
2.C.6	Education and Training	Knowledge of principles and methods for curriculum and training design, teaching and instruction for individuals and groups, and the measurement of training effects.
2.C.7	Arts and Humanities	Knowledge of facts and principles related to the branches of learning concerned with human thought, language, and the arts.
2.C.7.a	English Language	Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, and rules of composition and grammar.
2.C.7.b	Foreign Language	Knowledge of the structure and content of a foreign (non-English) language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition and grammar, and pronunciation.
2.C.7.c	Fine Arts	Knowledge of the theory and techniques required to compose, produce, and perform works of music, dance, visual arts, drama, and sculpture.
2.C.7.d	History and Archeology	Knowledge of historical events and their causes, indicators, and effects on civilizations and cultures.
2.C.7.e	Philosophy and Theology	Knowledge of different philosophical systems and religions. This includes their basic principles, values, ethics, ways of thinking, customs, practices, and their impact on human culture.
2.C.8	Law and Public Safety	Knowledge of regulations and methods for maintaining people and property free from danger, injury, or damage; the rules of public conduct established and enforced by legislation, and the political process establishing such rules.
2.C.8.a	Public Safety and Security	Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions.
2.C.8.b	Law and Government	Knowledge of laws, legal codes, court procedures, precedents, government regulations, executive orders, agency rules, and the democratic political process.
2.C.9	Communications	Knowledge of the science and art of delivering information
2.C.9.a	Telecommunications	Knowledge of transmission, broadcasting, switching, control, and operation of telecommunications systems.
2.C.9.b	Communications and Media	Knowledge of media production, communication, and dissemination techniques and methods. This includes alternative ways to inform and entertain via written, oral, and visual media.
2.C.10	Transportation	Knowledge of principles and methods for moving people or goods by air, rail, sea, or road, including the relative costs and benefits.
2.D	Education	Prior educational experience required to perform in a job
2.D.1	Required Level of Education	The level of education required to perform a job.
2.D.4	Job-Related Professional Certification	Certification: A credential awarded by a certification body based on an individual demonstrating through an examination process that he or she has acquired the designated knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform a specific job.
2.D.4.a	Job-Related Professional Certification	Possession of an occupational or industry certification to perform the job.
3	Experience Requirements	Experience Requirements
3.A	Experience and Training	If someone were being hired to perform this job, how much of the following would be required?
3.A.1	Related Work Experience	Amount of related work experience required to get hired for the job?
3.A.2	On-Site or In-Plant Training	Amount of on-site or in-plant training (e.g., organized class room instruction) required to perform the job?
3.A.3	On-the-Job Training	Amount of on the job training required to perform the job?
3.A.4	Apprenticeship	Apprenticeship is a combination of on-the-job training and related instruction in which workers learn the practical and theoretical aspects of a highly skilled occupation. Apprenticeship programs can be sponsored by individual employers, joint employer and labor groups, and/or employer associations.
3.A.4.a	Job-related Apprenticeship	Completion of a job-related apprenticeship to perform the job.